Hiram was Levi Fowler's nephew, through Josiah


Hiram Chatman Fowler 
Reminisces
Source:  Burnet Bulletin, 29 Jan 1925
transcribed by JoAnn Myers, October 2006
SOME EARLY HISTORY
(Marble Falls Messenger)
Editor Messenger --
In accordance with the request of Senator J. H. Faubion, thatI write you regarding some of the incidents connected with the earlyimmigration to and settlement of portions of Burnet and Williamsoncounties.  I herewith transmit some leaves taken from my diary ofthose days.
I was born January 13, 1844 in Coke County, East Tennessee.  About 15 or 20 of September 1852, my father, Josiah Fowler, with his wife (my mother) and eight children, together with a family of ten negro slaves, Dr. L. M. Gett and family, Mr. James Black and family, and Alex Oromtonand negro men all started on a trip of two thousand miles overland, inwagons, to Texas -- our anticipated destination being Gonzales.
Inorder to avoid the almost impassable muddy roads in the swamps ofLouisiana and East Texas, at that date, they thought it good judgmentto make a detour to the north, through the hilly country therebylengthening the road some five hundred miles.
Thefirst town of any note, on the route was Knoxville, in East Tenn., thenNashville where they halted and the caravan marched through the StatePenitentiary in order to imbibe a dislike in the minds of the youngpeople of the crown to ever being sent to such an institution.
Wecrossed the Mississippi river--a mile wide in an old dilapidated flatbottomed row boat, at or near Columbus, Kentucky.  Then we went toLittle Rock, Arkansas, through the semi-civilized Chockta Indiannation, crossing Red River at the junction of the Klamicia river intoTexas.  Oh, what joy filled our hearts.   We were atlast actually on Texas soil, but alas we were still 350 or 400 milesfrom our destination.
Our first town to pass through in the state was Paris, in Lamar County.  Here Mr. Blackleft us, saying he was really in Texas and that was good enough forhim; we never heard any thing more from him.  Our next town wasMcKinney, in Collin County.  then Waxahachie, Dallas, Waco,McClenan county, Belton, Georgetown and Austin.  All these townswere comparatively small and unimportant places -- some only having apost office and a few stores -- even Dallas, that now boasts of nearly200,000 population, was a very small town -- with an old ferry boatthat reached nearly across the Trinity River -- with no roads, exceptwhere immigrants had navigated their "Prairie Schooners" across "God'sown country."  
Austinwas little more than a mere village.  The first wild jackrabbit Iever saw was within four hundred yards of where the great granitecapitol of Texas now stands, which cost the State 2,500,00 acres of thebest land a crow ever flew over.
Wecamped for the Christmas holidays nine miles south of Austin, on Onioncreek, at the Smith Crossing, then on to Gonzales, where we remainedten days, leaving there on January 8th 1853 going north, backthrough  Austin to Spicewood Spring -- eight miles from Austin onJanuary 9.  We camped at Mr. Babcocke's who was the father of the Hon. J. M. Babcocke,afterwards County Commissioner of Williamson County.   Afterremaining at this camp one day, on the 11th of January came to Judge Scott'son Oatmeal Creek in Burnet County on January 12th, came by Mormon Milland Mormon Town and crossed to the South side of the Colorado River atthe Mormon Crossing -- about half a mile below what afterwards becameknown as the Eubank Crossing.
On January 18, cold and snowing, my brother (Pleas) just older than I, and Dr. P. M. Yett, while trying to go to Uncle Levi Fowler'ssome two miles down the river from our camp, became lost, and doubtlesswould have frozen to death had they not walked all night by turnsbetween two tall trees to keep warm.  That evening, just as thesun went down -- our long journey had lasted 110 days, came to anend.  No wagon had ever before been in five miles of where westopped.  But we were not without neighbors.
Ashort two miles away, was a camp of some fifty Indians and they hadplenty of bear meat, deer, etc., together with about a wagon load ofacorns (for bread) piled up.  However, after being requested to gowest and protesting in about two weeks they broke camp and left andnever troubled us any more.
Thiscamp was less than one half mile from where the town of Spicewood isnow located.  Soon after we became permanently located, my fatherbought the land where these Indians were camped and I remember to haveseen their deserted Tepees many times.
Senator Faubion requests that I state what I know, if anything about the Mormon settlement in Burnet County.
On January 12, 1853, the day before we reached the end of our journey, we stopped and examined Mormon Mills, on Hamilton Creek, one mile north of the Mormon town.
Themill and town appeared to be about two years old.  The mill was acrude affair, but was doing good business, mostly sawing, as there wasnot a bushel of grain raised in that territory up to that date, butduring 1853 quite a lot of small patches of corn was grown and a littleof it ground into meal.
 TheSenator has described how the mill was located there, hence it isunnecessary for me to repeat it; suffice to say it was an ideallocation for an over-shot water mill with perhaps thirty foot fall andabsolutely cut off from damage by high water by a high rock bluff onthe north.
Thisaccounts for the selection and choice of the place, for machinery, bythe Mormons, who were nearly all trained mechanics.  Very few ornone, ever following tilling the soil for a livelyhood, it alsoaccounts for the abandonment by them of their temporary settlement westof Mount Bonnell on theColorado river, some three miles from Austin, which occurred in1850-1851, because that location was very difficult of access andegress and would also prove to be extremely expensive to maintainbuildings as every small rise in the river was liable to causeirrepairable damage and loss.
TheirBurnet County town or colony was also idealy located, being only ashort mile from the mill where a number of their men were employed on abeautiful plateau, adjacent to a large, cold spring, gushing out of thetop of a bluff, at the very edge of town.
Here Colonel Wyatt,  theircommander and High Priest, had his dwelling in the center of thePlateau, surrounded by the humble residences of his followers andchurch members, who numbered between forty and sixty men and many womenand children.  These people believed and practiced poligomy,otherwise, they were peaceable, law-abiding and quiet.
Col. Wyatt was, all in all to them --had you wished to employ one of more of them, you had to see Col. Wyatt about it and after the job was complete, you must settle withhim.  If one of them owed you a nights lodging, or a bushel ofcorn, he said Col. Wyatt would pay you.
Whilethe inhabitants of this little town seemed happy and contented -- aboutfive years later, about two-thirds of them started overland, in wagons,to Salt Lake, Utah, while the balance elected to remain in BurnetCounty and became good and useful citizens of the community in whichthey lived.  I attended school tow or three years with some ofthese children and found them real smart students.
Iwas also, later on in the Confederate service with some of the men andthey were sure fine soldiers, good and efficient scouts and faithful tothe "Lost Cause."
It was reported at the time they started to Salt Lake that only a few days after starting, Col. Wyatt became seriously sick and died in a few hours.
Mrs. S. P. Kinser,  ina recent letter to the Marble Falls Messenger about the Mormons ofBurnet County, does not mention this and it may be a mistake.
This letter is already too long.
H. C. Fowler, Liberty Hill, Texas

For more information about H. C. Fowler and his family, see Burnet County History, Vol II, page 95
 
 
GO TO
Burnet Main Page |Photo Album |Burnet Resources |War Page | TexasResources | National Resources |Searches |Genealogy Info
 
You are our 641 visitor tothis page.
Last update:  Wednesday, 25-Oct-2006 14:21:43 MDT
 
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~txburnet/FowlerHC.html