William Long


Mary Eleanor Long (Foster)

b 1842
d Nov 16 1910 Caddo Parish, LA

f William Long
m Emily C. Boggs

o James Martin Foster


Called the house Curraghmuir

I had an address, vaguely remember Greenwood Ave.


William Long
native of Ireland
graduate of Trinity College, Dublin
came to America before age 20
medical college in Phil.
moved to Natchitoches
o Emily C. Boggs

mother died early
has a brother
various relatives
sent to Mansfield college
married when just 17

----

Foster, Mrs. James M., nee Eleanor Long, was one of the most 
distinguished and brilliant women of Louisiana.  She was born 
at Natchitoches.  Her father, Dr. William Long, was a native of 
Ireland and graduate of Trinity college, Dublin.  Comng to America 
before he had reached the age of 20, he graduated from a 
Philadelphia medical college and, in early manhood, came to 
Louisiana and located in Natchitoches for the practice of medicine.  
Later he became extensively engaged in planting and merchandising 
at Natchitoches.  He married there in 1840 Miss Emily C. Boggs, 
a native of Berkeley county, Va., and a member of a prominent 
Virginia family, being the daughter of the Rev. Dr. John Boggs, 
a distinguished Presbyterian divine and a graduate of Princeton
University.  On her maternal side, Mrs. Foster was a direct 
descendant of Col. Ellis Cooke, who commanded a battalion in the 
Revolutionary war, and who was a warm personal friend of George 
Washington.  Her mother died when she was a small child, and she 
and her only brother, John Long, were the tender charges, in their 
childhood, of a devoted aunt, who rendered valuable aid to Dr. 
Long in his care of his motherless children. When quite a young 
girl Mrs. Foster was sent to Mansfield college, then one of the 
leading institutions of the South.  From this college she was 
graduated with distinguished honors.  When barely 17 years of age 
she became the bride of the late James M. Foster, at that time a 
prominent young planter of Caddo parish

(from Louisiana:  Sketches ... see file in data)